# S-DOEA - Workshop 8 - Kubernetes

Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration system for automating software deployment, scaling, and management. Google originally designed Kubernetes, but the Cloud Native Computing Foundation 

All of AWS services in this tutorial should be in the same region Sydney (ap-southeast-2).

## Pre-requisites
- Docker installed
- Dcokerhub Account
- Minikube installed


1. Create a sample node js web application

2. Dockerize your app 

3. If there is any exist app already with the name first-app, delete the deployment plan

```
$ kubectl delete deployment first-app
```

4. Recreate the k8 deployment plan where it will retrieve docker image from your dockerhub account. (Make sure you already published your docker image to the hub)
```
$ kubectl create deployment first-app --image=kenken64/kub-first-app
```

5. Start the minikube service for first-app

```
$ minikube service first-app
```

6. Check on the k8 pods 

```
kubectl get pods
```

7. Access the node js web app via http://localhost:28522

8. Lets test out the self healing feature when application is deployed to k8, access this end point on your web browser http://localhost:28522/error. This will result in crashing your app , kubernetes will auto restart your app automatically

9. Wait for 2 mins and try accessing the app again

10. Let us now scale the app to 3 replicas

```
kubectl scale deployment/first-app --replicas=3
```
11. Repeat step 8 and observe the behaviour of k8 in terms of how it will load balance to the exisitng runing pods. Check the status of the individual pos

```
$ kubectl get pods
```

12. Let us make some changes to the node js web app "change the page para from version 3 to 4"

13. Rebuild the docker image with a new tag and publish it

```
docker build -t kenken64/kub-first-app:2 .

docker push kenken64/kub-first-app:2
```

14. Make sure the deployment plan is still up and running

```
kubecctl get deployments
```

15. Update the deployment plan with the latest docker tag version

```
kubectl set image deployments/first-app kub-first=kenken64/kub-first-app:2

```

16. Check whether is the deployment plab rollout with the updates

```
kubectl get deployments
kubectl rollout status deployment/first-app
```

17. Access the node js web app via http://localhost:28522

18. Let us try rollback the updates of the app

```
kubectl rollout undo deployment/first-app
```

19. Check whether is the deployment plab rollout with the updates

```
kubectl rollout status deployment/first-app
```